<a id="top" />

* [Getting Started](#getting_started "Getting Started")
  * [Requirements](#requirements "Requirements")
  * [Installing](#installing "Installing")
  * [Usage](#usage "Usage")
  * [Themes](#uthemes "Themes")
* [Extending](#extending "Extending")
  * [Syntax Files](#synfiles "Syntax Files")
  * [Handler Methods](#handlers "Handler Methods")
  * [Tokenizers](#lexers "Tokenizers")
  * [Themes](#themes "Themes")
     * [Theme Inheritance](#theme_inh "Theme Inheritance")
* [Further Info](#moreinfo "More Info")

<h2 id="getting_started">Getting Started</h2>

--------

<h3 id="requirements">Requirements</h3>
  *  PHP 5.2.x or greater
  *  Linux only until PHP 5.3

<h3 id="installing">Installing</h3>
  1. `chmod a+x install.sh`
  2. `./install.sh`  (sudo if you want to install for all users)

<h3 id="usage">Usage</h3>
    man lzhighlight

<h3 id="uthemes">Themes</h3>
**Setting the default theme**: To set the default theme just symlink your
preferred theme to a folder named `syntax/` in the base of the repo:

	ln -s themes/wombat/ syntax

**Override default**: You can use the `-e` option to override the default

	highlight -i somefile.php -e skittles_dark



<h2 id="extending">Extending</h2>
--------

<h3 id="synfiles">Syntax Files</h3>
To add a syntax to the highlighter you need to create two files: syntax.syn
and syntax.php. syntax.syn will be a newline separated file containing the
tokens and associated color (see man console_codes) OR HTML colors  
**Example:**

	T_STRING 1;32
	T_ELSEIF #FF00FF

The tokens in syntax.syn must match the tokens produced by `<syntax>.php`. The
.syn files can link together by using the #LINK directive ie.,

	T_STRING 1;32
	T_ELSEIF 31
	#LINK html.syn

The color can also be another token which links multiple tokens together:

	T_STRING        bgreen   // use human readable color
	T_ENCAPS_STRING T_STRING // link T_ENCAPS_STRING to T_STRING

You can also apply bold/italics to a token using `%`:

	COMMENT    #5D8D8F%i          // italic
	OP         #8AC6F2%b          // bold

Background colors are supported but only applied to HTML output:

	ERROR      #960050%bi #1E0010 // bold, italic and custom bgcolor

### Handler Methods
Inside the tokenizers you can write methods to handle tokens directly if
there is extra processing that needs to take place (making URLs links, etc)
To do this, simply put the name of the function as the color:

	HTML_STRING      HtmlLexer::handleString

Also, you can specify whether or not it should happen only on HTML or
console output. When you do this you must specify a fallback color to use.

	HTML_STRING      HtmlLexer::handleString|STRING    HTMLONLY

The function must always come first followed by a pipe and a color, which
like above, can be another token name.

<h3 id="lexers">Tokenizers</h3>
The <syntax>.php file at minimum must contain the camelized class <syntax>Lexer
ie., PhpLexer. This class's tokenize method returns an array of tokenizations of
the code passed to the function as a string. The array should follow the
format of:

	array(
		0 => array(
			'token' => 'T_STRING',
			'string' => "'this is some string in the code'"
		),
		1 => array(
			'token' => 'T_ELSEIF',
			'string' => 'elseif'
		)
	)

See the bundled `tokenizers/php.php` and `syntax/php.syn` for more examples.

<h3 id="themes">Themes</h3>
Themes exist in the (duh) `themes/` directory. Each theme has a directory under
themes/ with the name of the theme, ie., `themes/wombat/`. Inside this directory
is a `<lang>.syn` file for each syntax the theme supports.

* themes/
   * wombat/
      * php.syn
      * default.syn
      * ...
   * skittles_dark/
      * php.syn
      * default.syn
      * ...

<h4 id="theme_inh">Theme Inheritance</h4>
The simplest way to inherit from a theme is to simply create symlinks to another
theme and override the default.syn file. However, there may be entries in that
theme's `<lang>.syn` file that does not fallthrough to the default.syn so be
careful.


<h2 id="moreinfo">Further Info</h2>
-----
If you can't get it working or you found a bug, etc. then send an email to
shawn AT shawnbiddle DOT com with the subject 'Syntax Highlighter'

[Back to top](#top "Back to top")


